Like the previous three entries in the series, Rhythm Heaven Megamix is composed of several Rhythm Games, requiring players to play in time with the music in order to clear each one. The game uses the traditional control scheme featured in the original Rhythm Tengoku, which uses the A, B, and directional buttons on the Nintendo 3DS. The game can be optionally played with the stylus, though controls are more simplified compared to Rhythm Heaven. The game features over 100 Rhythm Games, including about 70 taken from previous titles (including the GBA release, which was never released in the west) and about 30 brand new ones, as well as new Remix stages based on the game's Rainbow Towers which combine the previous rhythm games in the tower (or more rhythm games) into one song. Tower-themed elements are incorporated into the remix while every character in the present rhythm games get to wear special tower-themed alternate costumes (except for the Left-Hand, Right-Hand and Final Remixes). Ratings for the Rhythm Games are now awarded based on a score meter indicating how well the player performed. Each Rhythm Game also features a special Skill Star point, which awards bonuses for hitting a certain part of the game with precise timing. Playing through Rhythm Games earns Medals that can be used to unlock bonuses such as additional rhythm games. Megamix features a Story Mode in which players try to help a character named Tibby reach Heaven World, his home. The mode has players play through stages in a linear format, which is broken up by challenge games, before allowing players to tackle various towers in any order they choose. Some older Rhythm Games that returned in Megamix (such as Karate Man, Glee Club and Air Rally), received a prequel version, An easier version with new graphics and an alternated music (to match the music style of the new rhythm games featured in Megamix), while the original Rhythm Games have been labeled as sequels. Some of the returning games from Tengoku and Heaven (DS) have been added new music and redesigned graphics. Outside of the Story Mode, players can attempt Perfect Campaigns, which require players to clear selected stages without making any mistakes, or take on challenges on the Challenge Train, which can be played with up to four players via Download Play. The Challenge Mode in the game also has two WarioWare crossover challenges named as "Wario... Where?", which replaces some of the rhythm games' main characters with characters from the WarioWare series (This is due to both the WarioWare and Rhythm Heaven franchises being made by the same developers). The game also features bonus rhythm games (all from previous titles) and a Figure Fighter Duel challenge that uses the 3DS StreetPass functionality.